# Export Control Workgroup Meeting 2023-06-06

## Implications of US/China Trade Tensions for Open Source

Shane presented an assessment of what the current tensions mean for open source: not a lot, basically.

There's no obvious impact on open source collaboration. OpenChain activities continue without being affected. 
Open source continues to be contributed to and shared, etc.

## Meeting Time

Steve noted that Analog Devices has a Trade Compliance expert who _might_ be able to join the calls, but it's 
currently the wrong timezone (the ADI representative is in the US, east coast). Steve will check on commitment, 
before the group considers either changing the meeting time, or switching to the alternating earlier/later 
schedule used by some other workgroups.

## Update on Work

### Repos


Gilles has set up https://github.com/crypto-law-survey/ with four repos:
- crypto-law-survey - the main content from Bert-Jaap's original site.
- cryptographic_algorithms - contributions from Julian (ScanOSS) on algorithm classification
- community-discussion-channel - for general discussions around EC and crypto
- .github - profile

There are no issues at present, and all PRs have been merged.

### Country Files

Shane had converted Bert-Jaap's original single-file HTML document into a single Markdown doc; 
Steve has broken the single Markdown file in to one file per country, in the data/countries 
directory. Further tweaking done for formatting, to add copyrights, and to add a SPDX-License-Identifier.
- Gilles suggested adding an SPDX-LIcense-Identifier to the end of the README.md file, too.

We now need volunteers to look at the files to see where the files can be brought up to date.
- Gilles suggested that we should put the date of last update into the title of the file, within each 
Markdown doc, so that it's more obvious when it was changed.

Steve suggests that perhaps the first order of business would be to check that we have an accurate 
list of _countries_ - it may be that the list of sovereign nations has changed since Bert-Jaap's most 
recent up.

### Algorithms

Julian contributed a list of algorithm names and bit lengths, which are in the cryptographic_algorithms repo. 
There are also "Is Strong Encryption?" and "Standard Cryptography" columns.

Steve didn't understand the intent behind the "Standard Cryptography" column, and it's up for discussion - perhaps 
this should identify standards that define the algorithm? It was also suggested that a URL would be useful, to point 
to more detail on the algorithm.

Johannes Romann of Software AG asked whether it was within scope to propose SBOM fields to SPDX. Probably - the remit 
is to help improve trust in the supply chain, and if that does it, all good. Software AG have been working on defining
fields in this area, and Johannes showed the work in progress, which looks good.

- It was noted that, in export compliance laws, it's not just the bit strength that matters; there's also the use-case.
- It was noted that IBM have been working on a cBOM standard: https://github.com/IBM/CBOM
- A "Quantum-Safe?" column might also be useful: https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/research/working-groups/quantum-safe-security/
- It was noted that SSL has different algorithms compiled in, depending on build options.

(Steve isn't sure whether he heard suggestions of matching header file / import names, or function / constant identifiers as 
means of detecting crypto usage.)

### Rust Ecosystem

Steve mentioned the work being done by the Rust community to share supply-chain information. The article 
https://opensource.googleblog.com/2023/05/open-sourcing-our-rust-crate-audits.html points to Google's own 
repo on Rust crate audits (https://github.com/google/rust-crate-audits/blob/main/audits.toml) where the 
usual Rust criteria are augmented with custom criteria:
- criteria.crypto-safe
- criteria-does-not-implement-crypto

It's good that the Rust community has this effort in progress while the ecosystem is still relatively immature and 
there is time to establish this as a convention before practices are too intrenched. Steve noted that the other 
orgs sharing in this effort (Microsoft, Mozilla and Bitware Alliance(?) _don't_ appear to be creating audit records 
with these custom criteria, though.

Both Jan and Steve noted that this sharing of individuals' assessments of software is reminiscent of Clearly Defined.

Steve volunteered to reach out to the blog authors to get more information on the custom criteria.

### License and Copyright
Notes Copyright (c) 2023 Analog Devices, Inc.
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-1.0
